I'm Vedant Das Swain. I study digital applications, models, and infrastructures to change the way we work with the goal of improving worker mental health and ensuring sustainable performance. I am a tenure-track Assistant Professor at NYU Tandon School of engineering in the Department of Technology Management and Innovation. I direct the research group on on *COmputing for Productive, Healthy, and Empathetic Experiences* [COPHEE](https://cophee-lab.com/).

Computing and AI is a major component of how we work. And how we work is a major component of our mental health. I believe that we need to redesign these digital technologies for work to move beyond task completion and production. We need to devise new tools that help workers manage their wellbeing, choose healthier behaviors, and even select better job roles. In my research, I take a human-centered approach by identifying the challenges and opportunities for societal adoption of intelligent systems for worker wellbeing; I leverage theories from organizational sciences to inform new behavioral models of understanding worker mental health; and I investigate novel digital interventions and reflection applications for better work behaviors. Together, my studies reveal the importance of often ignored social dynamics at work and propose novel solutions to empower workers to take better decisions regarding their work goals. 

I have authored several papers at top-tier venues for Human-Centered Computing, including CHI, CSCW, UbiComp/IMWUT. My papers have received awards at CHI 2022 (top 5%) and CHI 2024 (top 1%). I have also been honored with the Gaetano Borriello Outstanding Student Award and the GVU Foley Scholar Award. My research has been supported by IARPA, NSF, CDC, ORNL, and Semiconductor Research Corporation. I serve as the lead PI on grants from NIDA/NIH and Microsoft.   

I have a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Georgia Institute of Technology, where I was co-advised by [Prof. Munmun De Choudhury](http://www.munmund.net/) and [Prof. Gregory D. Abowd](https://coe.northeastern.edu/people/abowd-gregory/). 
I completed my M.S. in Human Computer Interaction from Georgia Tech and my B.Tech in Computer Science & Engineering from IIIT-Delhi. Prior to starting faculty life, I was a [Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellow](https://www.khoury.northeastern.edu/research/postdoctoral-fellowship/) in Human-Computer Interaction and Personal Health Informatics at Northeastern University. 
